# Simple D100 system

This is a simple RPG d100 esque system meant for fantasy roleplaying in a world where decisions matter and death is always on the line. 

## Attributes

Each character has seven primary attributes: Combat, Agility, Vim, Vigor, Fellowship, Will, Intelligence and two derived stats: wounds & grit. 

 **Attribute Bonuses**: Whenever the rules call for an *attribute bonus* that is equal to a character's attribute in that level divided by 10 rounded down. So a score of 32 or 38 would be an attribute bonus of 3.

### Primary Attributes

**Combat:** Your ability in all things combat, range, melee, punching things with your fist.

**Agility**: One’s ability to move with grace and agility.

**Vim**: Your physical strength.

**Vigor** Your toughness

**Fellowship**: How long you get a long with your fellow people.

**Will**: Your resolve/willpower/connection with the world.

**Intelligence**: How book smart you are. Useful for arcane skills.

 **Derived Stats**
Wounds: Are how tough you are in general aka hit points. Vigor bonus * 2 + Vim bonus
Grit: How much you can take mentally. It is your Will bonus + your Fellowship Bonus

### Generating stats

Stats are generated by rolling 2d10s and adding the result to a base stat. Each character has a set of characteristics that determine the bases. All bases start at 20 unless otherwise specified. A character can choose two characteristics, one major, two minor.

  #### Characteristics
**Lithe:** The character has a preternatural litheness. Maybe they have got some elf blood, maybe the swarm has hitched a ride on their nerves but whatever the reason they move quicker then a normal human. If you take this as a major then they get +20 to their Agility and + 10 to their combat skill. If taken as minor you gain +10 to Agility. 

**Stone-borne:** You've got the blood of the Goliath in your bones. You’re unnaturally tough and stubborn. You get +20 to your Vigor and +10 to your Willpower. If taken as minor get +10 to your vigor. 

**Strong as an ox**
+20 Vim, + 10 Vigor;+10 Vim if minor.

**Conscript**
+20 Vim, +10 Combat Skill; +10 Vim if Minor

**Everyone's Friend**
+20 Fellowship, +10 will. +10 Fellowship

Basically you can choose to give +20 to one stat and +10 to another. Minor characteristics give a +10 to the major stat. 
 

## Fate & Darkness
Everyone has a destiny and doom that are represented by two pools of points. These can be used to 

### Fate Points
A player can spend fate points to re-roll any roll by a player. Each character starts with two points and accumulates one new one every session up to a max two plus either their fellowship or willpower bonus (their choice). Additionally talents will allow a character to spend a fate point to roll with advantage on a roll. 

### Darkness Points: 
This represents how close the character is to the edge of darkness/evil. Each character starts with zero but can choose to accumulate one to get a re-roll on any roll like a *fate point*. The game master can then spend a characters darkness point to force them to roll with disadvantage, take extra damage or have a bad turn of fate. Examples such as this might be being out of ammo unexpectedly, the rope breaking as they try and scale a cliff, or some other similar misfortune. Nothing that can kill a character but can provide a setback.

If a player ever has more darkness points then their max Grit they risk succumbing to their darker side. They must make a will check. If they pass then nothing happens. If they fail then a darkness point but must roll on the 'darkness table'. that's TBD but let me tell you it's bad.

Other ways to remove darkness points include:
Resting in a place with a high fellowship for a week or more
Performing a task for a priest



## Checks
A check is done by rolling a d100 and comparing it to the relevant skill or attribute. If you roll under the attribute you succeed. If you roll over then you fail.

### Advantage/Disadvantage
If you have advantage on a roll then you roll then you roll three d10s and pick the two that you want. If you have disadvantage then roll 3d10s and the GM picks the two that they want.

### Flipping the roll
Some abilities call for flipping the roll which means you can swap the tens and the ones digit, a failure can become a success or gain extra success levels this way.

### Levels of Success
For each 10s digit you roll you gain 1 level of success. That is if you roll a 15 you have one, 24 two, 37 three etc. Levels of success can have a variety of effects, in combat they add damage, they can count towards extended checks, etc.

### Difficulty Levels
Most tasks require only a simple success to succeed. Some tasks however are more difficult and therefore require multiple success levels to achieve. An example might be picking a complex lock. This will take three levels of successes to achieve so the player must roll a 30+ on their role. 

### Simple vs Extended Checks
There are two types of skill checks: simple and extended. A simple check is where you roll once and you use the result given. An extended test has a requirement that you get a certain # of successes over a set number of attempts.

**Examples**  
_Baranor is swinging his maul at an evil cultist. This is a regular check on his weapon skill of 55. He rolls a 45, thereby succeeding with **5 SLs** and does 5 points of damage._

_Karrock the Nimble is trying to pick a lock while the battle rages around him. It's expert dwarfcraft so it requires 6 SLs to pick. He's got a mechanisms skill of 66. The first round he rolls a 22, thereby getting three successes, second round an 08 getting 1 and the third round he rolls a 55, getting six more for a totally of 10 success levels. The lock springs open!_


### Critical Rolls & Critical Failures
If you roll doubles when making a skill check you either have a critical success or failure depending on if you succeed or fail. 

### Skills over 100
If your skill is over 100 then you can adjust your roll by up to the # of points over 100. For example if your Weapon Skill is 112 you could adjust your roll up to 12 points. That means that you could turn a roll of 37 to a roll of 44 and get a critical success. 

## Skills

### Combat: 

**Brawl** (Combat): Who needs weapons? You're good at hitting things with your bare fist.

**Melee** (Combat): This covers your ability to hit things with other things. Whether its a chair, a sword or another person you're skilled at using it to inflict harm upon your fellow human,

**Ranged** (Combat): Some call it the cowards way out but you're able to easily shoot someone from far away using a bow, throw a knife at someone, or just toss a rock. Firearms however require special training. 

### Social
**Innuendo**: You're able to navigate social situations. Use this skill when you're hoping to get information out of someone.
**Charm/Intimidate**: Two sides of the same coin this skill lets you convince someone to do what you want.

## Lore
**History**: You've got knowledge of history. It's always helpful as you navigate unknown tooms
**Lore,  Arcane**: Intelligence. This covers your knowledge of all things magical. It doesn't mean you can cast magic but is used if you do.
**Lore, Divine**: Your knowledge of the will of the gods. Useful for miracles and prayer.
**Wises**: This can be one of the following skills, streetwise, woodwise, noblewise or seawise. You know about the respective thing.

## Physical:
**Athletics**: Agility. You're ability to do things like jump, climb, swashbuckle. 
**Tinkering**: How good you are at building something. Maybe it'll be rolled into mechanisms.
**Mechanisms***(Agility) Covers your ability to manipulate small mechanisms such as watches, clocks and locks…
**Stealth**: Agility, How well you can hide. 
**Skulduggery** (Agility) A catch all for all things nefarious for now.
## Talents

Talents are how you get to break the rules. They will offer things like the ability to roll with advantage on certain checks, deal extra damage or unlock certain things like using 'martial' weapons. Some examples might be:

**Firearms**
You've been trained how to use firearms. Now you won't blow your hand off. 

**Woodwise**:
_probably should be renamed_ For whatever reason you've got an innate understanding of the woods. You can spend a fate point to roll with advantage on all woodwise checks as well as stealth checks while in the woods.

**Martial Weapons**: 
You've been trained on martial weapons, you can now use them with no disadvantage.



## Careers
Careers are the main method for character development.





## Combat

Basics:

### Initiative
The players go first unless surprised. The side that goes first chooses who goes then they can choose among everyone who hasn't gone who goes next. If everyone on their side has gone then the opposing side goes. If for some reason there are more then two sides, divide a D6 by the number of remaining sides and roll to see who goes.

### Actions
 
Each character gets two actions a turn, these can be things such as movement, attacking, casting a spell, etc. 

**Actions:**
Attack: Make a skill roll against your weapon skill, each level of success of success means you do one wound to your opponent up to the maximum for the weapon. You can choose to gain a darkness point to add 1d6 in   to you damage, this isn't restricted by the weapons max damage. 

**Movement:** 
Move from one zone to another. Zones that are tagged difficult to move take two movement actions to cross. For now use the rules from [fate](https://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=fate+zones&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8) for zones.

**Disengage:** 
You disengage from an enemy cautiously, meaning they don't get an *opportunity attack* against you. 

**Interact**: Interact with a battlefield, this could be something like knocking things down to make a zone difficult to move, or shooting a rope holding up a chandelier to have it come crashing down on someone. The skill checked is up to the GM.

**Cast a spell**: You can cast a spell, see the [magic](magic) section. 


### Damage
When you successfully hit or are hit by an opponent then you can cause damage. The formula for damage is: _weapon damage  + strength bonus + success levels - victims armor bonus - victims toughness_. Subtract this from your current wounds. If your wounds is now 0 or less you're knocked unconscious and are bleeding out. All attacks do a minimum of 1 point of damage.

#### Critical Hits & Critical Failures
If you roll doubles on a success attack then you've rolled a critical hit! Huzzah! You then roll on the dolorous wounds table and your opponent suffers the effect.

If you roll doubles on an unsuccessful attack then you've suffered a critical failure. Something bad happens such as opening yourself up for another attack, or you drop your weapon.  

_Optional Rule:_ If you roll a critical hit on an unnamed NPC such as a bandit or a town guard you kill them instantly. 

#### Wounds & Injuries _(optional)_
If you wish to avoid harm and injury and the sweet embrace of death you can take either a wound or an injury. 

**wounds:** If you choose to take a wound then subtract 1d6/2+your vigor bonus from the damage you've been dealt. In return you've been dealt a wound that will take a good nights rest at an inn or other similar situation. Until you are able to heal up you suffer -1 Succes level for every roll made with a skill based on that ability. 

| **Roll 1d10** | **Ability Penalized** |
|:-------------:|:---------------------:|
| 1-2           | Combat                |
| 3-5           | Vigor                 |
| 6-8           | Vim                   |
| 8-10          | Agility               |

**injuries**
If the blow is massive then you can choose to take an injury. This will be a long term negative effect on your character. In return you take no damage. 